---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Blog, work in progress"
category:
- gsoc16
- full-time_week
permalink: gsoc16/week/6/
meta_description: 'GSOC2016: Week 6'
browser_title: 'GSOC2016: Week 6 '
---


This week I created this blog and added support for drawing neural networks for MLP.


## Question
In `JsMVA.DataLoader.GetInputVariableHist` function I need to have access to `TMVA::MethodBase::CreateVariableTransforms` function, which is **private**, so I made public. How can we avoid making this function public? Is there other solution than rewriting in python?

## Blog
I decided I will use Jekyll and github pages to post about my work. First I learnt how this works, then I had some error with URL at github, now this is solved. I added sharing in email option to my page, because if I want to share a new post mostly I will do in email. I also added support for scrollbar in code highlight and fixing the size of these boxes.
In my work all my outputs are JavaScript based plots, which easily can be used outside of notebook too. So I thought it would be nice, if in my blog I'm able to show my result. To be able to do this, first I created a python module: SavaJSON. If we import this module, it will change the JPyInterface.JsDraw.Draw method to it's own, which is similar to JPyInterface's method, but will save the JSON string. Also contains a method which will save the string to file. In this simple way I save all my plots, I copy to my blog directory. I also wrote a blogJsMVA class in JavaScript which will use the JsMVA to produce plots from JSON. Finally I added a new functionality to my page: calling
`{#% include jsdraw.html part='1' file='json_name' method='jsmva_drawing_method' %}` will produce the nice plots. You can see example for this in week 4 and week 5.


## Small stuffs

### DefaultDataSetInfo() and Log

I solved the privacy problems what occurred when I tried to use  `TMVA::DefaultDataSetInfo()` from python. In last week I solved this
problem by making the function public, but from TMVA part I got some concerns about this, so I wrote a new method `JsMVA.DataLoader.__DefaultDataSetInfo`, which won't be accessible in notebook environment but do the same in python as the `TMVA::DefaultDataSetInfo()`.
The implementation of this is the following:

{% highlight python %}
def ____DefaultDataSetInfo(dl):
    return dl.AddDataSet(dl.GetName())
{% endhighlight %}

I also needed to put the `TMVA::Configurable::Log()` function public because I had to have access to that function in python. Now I create
a new `TMVA::MsgLogger` object in `JsMVA.DataLoader` and I use this when I need access to logging.


## Neural networks

The main part of this week was creating a JavaScript visualization for Neural Networks. To do this first, I learnt about
d3js. I created NeuralNetwork.js, which gets the network properties and create a visualization from that.
When we call `factory.DrawNeuralNetwork` from Jupyter notebook, then this method will get the weights of network from the XML file,
and creates a JSON string, after this, inserts a JavaScript code in notebook output. This script will call the
`JsMVA.drawNeuralNetwork(divID, neuralNetworkJSON)` function which will use NeuralNetwork.js to produce a visualization for the network.

* ***Example***:

{% highlight python %}
factory.DrawNeuralNetwork("mydataset", "MLP")
{% endhighlight %}

* ***Result***:

{% include posts/gsoc16/nn_draw.html %}

* ***Interaction***:
  1. **Mouse-over (neuron, synapse):** focusing
  2. **Zooming and grab and move supported**
  3. **Reset:** double click
